[docs] Cleanup docs (#3176)
GoogleContainerTools/skaffold: docs/content/en/docs/pipeline-stages/cleanup.md

---
title: "Cleanup"
linkTitle: "Cleanup"
weight: 60
featureId: cleanup
---

Skaffold works with [image builders]({{<relref "/docs/pipeline-stages/builders">}}) and [deployers]({{<relref "/docs/pipeline-stages/deployers">}}) that both have side effects on the environment, namely: 

- resources are created in one or more namespaces in a Kubernetes cluster 

> - images are created on the local Docker daemon and registries

Reviewer: if we specify remote registries here, we need to add a note that *pushed images wont be deleted* and its up to users to prune them.

    
Skaffold offers functionality to cleanup these changes:

> - Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete` command and `--cleanup=true` flag for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`  

Reviewer: umm i think `cleanup` is true by default. Maybe we should mention, if you don't want skaffold to clean up resources use `cleaup=false` in the #Kubernetes resource cleanup section.

> - Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete` command and `--cleanup=true` flag for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete` command and `--cleanup` flag for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`  
```

- Image pruning - for local Docker daemon images 

## Kubernetes resource cleanup 

After you ran `skaffold run` or `skaffold deploy` and deployed your application to a cluster, running `skaffold delete` will remove all the resources you deployed.

> The easiest to think about `skaffold delete` is that it is equivalent to `kubectl delete -f <all your manifests>`.

Reviewer: maybe we should drop this. for `helm`, `skaffold delete` is deleting a revision and executes post and pre hooks etc.

---
title: "Cleanup"
linkTitle: "Cleanup"
weight: 60
featureId: cleanup
---

Skaffold works with [image builders]({{<relref "/docs/pipeline-stages/builders">}}) and [deployers]({{<relref "/docs/pipeline-stages/deployers">}}) 

> that both have side effects on the environment, thus including the applications effects we'll have: 

Reviewer 2: I would remove `, thus including the applications effects we'll have` to make easier to read.

- resources are created in one or more namespaces in a Kubernetes cluster 
- images might be created on the local Docker daemon
- images might be pushed to registries
- application might have arbitrary side effects 
    

> Skaffold offers functionality to cleanup at least some of these side effects:

Reviewer 2: I would remove `at least`

- Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete`, and Ctrl+C for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`   

> - Image pruning - for local Docker daemon images only on Ctrl+C for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug` 

Reviewer 2: only, on Ctrl+C

For pushed images in registries and application side effects the user has to take care of cleanup. 

## Kubernetes resource cleanup 
 
After you ran `skaffold run` or `skaffold deploy` and deployed your application to a cluster, running `skaffold delete` will remove all the resources you deployed.
Cleanup is enabled by default, it can be turned off by `--cleanup=false`. 

## Ctrl + C 

> In case of `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`, pressing `Ctrl+C` (`SIGTERM` signal) will kick off the cleanup process which will run a `skaffold delete` essentially.

Reviewer 2: SIGINT

Author: haha, oh right.

In case the skaffold process can't catch the `SIGTERM` signal, the running kubernetes resources still can be cleaned up with `skaffold delete`.
 
### Image pruning 
 
Images that are built by Skaffold and stored on the local Docker daemon can easily add up, taking up signficant amount of disk space locally.
To avoid this, users can turn on image pruning that deletes the images built by Skaffold on `SIGTERM` from `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`.  

> Image pruning is only available if artifact caching is disabled.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add some warning markup, here?

that both have side effects on the environment: 

- resources are created in one or more namespaces in a Kubernetes cluster 
- images might be created on the local Docker daemon
- images might be pushed to registries
- application might have arbitrary side effects 
    
Skaffold offers functionality to cleanup some of these side effects:

- Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete`, and Ctrl+C for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`   
- Image pruning - for local Docker daemon images only, on Ctrl+C for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug` 

For pushed images in registries and application side effects the user has to take care of cleanup. 

## Kubernetes resource cleanup 
 
After you ran `skaffold run` or `skaffold deploy` and deployed your application to a cluster, running `skaffold delete` will remove all the resources you deployed.
Cleanup is enabled by default, it can be turned off by `--cleanup=false`. 

## Ctrl + C 

In case of `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`, pressing `Ctrl+C` (`SIGINT` signal) will kick off the cleanup process which will run a `skaffold delete` essentially.

> In case the skaffold process can't catch the `SIGINT` signal, the running kubernetes resources still can be cleaned up with `skaffold delete`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the skaffold process can't catch the `SIGINT` signal, the running kubernetes resources can be cleaned up with `skaffold delete`.
```

 
### Image pruning 
 
Images that are built by Skaffold and stored on the local Docker daemon can easily add up, taking up signficant amount of disk space locally.
To avoid this, users can turn on image pruning that deletes the images built by Skaffold on `SIGTERM` from `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`.  

{{< alert title="Note" >}}

> Image pruning is only available if artifact caching is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Image pruning is only available if artifact caching is disabled.

Image pruning is disabled by default.
```

---
title: "Cleanup"
linkTitle: "Cleanup"
weight: 60
featureId: cleanup
---

Skaffold works with [image builders]({{<relref "/docs/pipeline-stages/builders">}}) and [deployers]({{<relref "/docs/pipeline-stages/deployers">}}) 

> that both have side effects on the environment: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that both have side effects on both your local and deployment environments: 
```

- resources are created in one or more namespaces in a Kubernetes cluster 
- images might be created on the local Docker daemon
- images might be pushed to registries

> - application might have arbitrary side effects 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- deployed applications might have unintended side effects 
```

Author: I don't agree with this - applications typically have very much intended side effects, like new records in databases, messages sent, etc.

> Skaffold offers functionality to cleanup some of these side effects:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Skaffold offers cleanup functionality to negate some of these side effects:
```

Author: revert?

> - Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete`, and Ctrl+C for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes resource cleanup - `skaffold delete`, and automatic cleanup on `Ctrl+C` for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`   
```

> - Image pruning - for local Docker daemon images only, on Ctrl+C for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug` 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Image pruning - for local Docker daemon images only, automatically on `Ctrl+C` for `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug` 
```

> For pushed images in registries and application side effects the user has to take care of cleanup. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Note" >}}
For safety reasons, Skaffold will **never** delete images pushed to any remote registry. Periodically, it's recommended to clean these up manually to avoid incurring excess storage costs.
{{</alert>}}
```

Author: why remove? Isn't it true? Transparency about this was my whole point.

## Kubernetes resource cleanup 
 

> After you ran `skaffold run` or `skaffold deploy` and deployed your application to a cluster, running `skaffold delete` will remove all the resources you deployed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After running `skaffold run` or `skaffold deploy` and deploying your application to a cluster, running `skaffold delete` will remove all the resources you deployed.
```

> Cleanup is enabled by default, it can be turned off by `--cleanup=false`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cleanup is enabled by default, but can be disabled with the `--cleanup=false` flag.
```

## Ctrl + C 

> In case of `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`, pressing `Ctrl+C` (`SIGINT` signal) will kick off the cleanup process which will run a `skaffold delete` essentially.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When running `skaffold dev` or `skaffold debug`, pressing `Ctrl+C` (`SIGINT` signal) will kick off the cleanup process which will mimic the behavior of `skaffold delete`.
```

> In case the skaffold process can't catch the `SIGINT` signal, the running kubernetes resources can be cleaned up with `skaffold delete`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If for some reason the Skaffold process was unable to catch the `SIGINT` signal, `skaffold delete` can always be run later to clean up the deployed Kubernetes resources.
```

 
### Image pruning 
 

> Images that are built by Skaffold and stored on the local Docker daemon can easily add up, taking up signficant amount of disk space locally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Images that are built by Skaffold and stored on the local Docker daemon can easily pile up, taking up a significant amount of disk space.
```

Author: haha I had the same version first, but figured that pile is too informal. I'll commit your suggestion, great minds think alike ;)

To avoid this, users can turn on image pruning that deletes the images built by Skaffold on `SIGTERM` from `skaffold dev` and `skaffold debug`.  

{{< alert title="Note" >}}
Image pruning is only available if artifact caching is disabled.<br>
As artifact caching is enabled by default, image pruning is disabled by default.
{{</alert>}}

> To enable image pruning mode you can run skaffold with both `--no-prune=false` and `--cache-artifacts=false`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable image pruning, you can run Skaffold with both `--no-prune=false` and `--cache-artifacts=false`:
```
